let's have the quickfire okay right
first up then lots of people talking
about meeting up with family they
haven't seen their loved ones I haven't
seen members of their family for seven
weeks Jackie says can you change the one
person you meet up with as long as it's
only one person each day so one day can
I see my mum and the next day can I meet
a friend or my dad in the park so we've
said that as long as you're going if you
go out of home for to the park for
exercise whatever it may be you can go
with members of your own household if
you're out in the park and you're 2
meters apart and we're saying now and
use some common sense and you socially
distance you can meet up with other
people the key thing is people want to
get outdoors particularly this weather
particularly I think the mental health
and frankly the frustration people feel
if they're cooped up for too long for
protective periods we want to make sure
that that people can enjoy the outdoors
more and that and that and that but but
but people must stay alert because the
more we do some of the things that we
want to do the more we need to just be
careful about this social distancing
people keep the two meters at this
social distancing then that they'll be
fine in those Apple spaces okay what
about the question of how many people
mark for example says can I meet my mum
in the morning and my dad in the
afternoon outside in the outdoors
staying two meters apart yes
can he do that in his garden or on the
driveway or does it have to be in a park
that's a question from lots of people
today who you appreciate I'm sure a
desperate just to have some contact with
their loved ones totally my mum's
birthday was over the weekend I'll
breaks my heart not to be with her and
have the family together but you know
that that is one of the restrictions
we've got currently in place moving
forward
we are not moving to a stage where we
say that households can mix inside the
home we've are saged the group of
government experts for advice on how and
when that might be done in the future
but we're clear at the moment that
that's not a safe thing to do because of
the risk of the virus spreading if that
family birthday was next weekend then
would you go now like week as I just
said we can't mix within homes one or
more households at this moment in time
but we've our sage revised further down
the track
it won't be for some weeks to at least
give us some advice on two things
whether it's a responsible thing to do
and if so how it could be done so just
to be absolutely clear people cannot mix
within the homes so one or tool through
more households cannot mix together
inside the home as of now and that
advice is not changing but we have our
sage for some advice on it because for
all the reasons you mentioned your
viewers mentioned we understand people
would like to be able to do that at some
point in the future okay quit long
football in the park lots of concerns
about that this morning about people
from various households ball starts
being kicked about you know what it's
like all of a sudden loads of people are
involved now I don't think so because
you can't stay two meters apart so we do
want people to play more sport and let
me give you one example of something you
can do two people from the same home
could go and play tennis because that's
something where they could stay two
meters apart from everyone else what you
couldn't then do and this is why we say
you've got to stay alert you couldn't
then go into the clubhouse and mill
around where you would be within two
meters of other people so football would
be one of those where I think it'd be
very difficult to stay two meters apart
if you're playing you know eleven a side
or even five a side okay david says
please can you ask mr. rabe how is it
possible for me to be able to see my
boss every day if he returns to work to
spend hours with strangers in the park
all day but I can't see my two daughters
who I'm assuming he don't live with him
and live separately at the same time
well so the advice about going back to
work is predicated on first of all we
want people to work from home if that if
they can work from home if they can't
work from home we're saying for example
in manufacturing or in construction you
can go back to to work we're working
with the employers to make sure that's
safe in relation to and the gentleman
that you referred to he could see his
daughters in the park or outside if they
maintain their distance two metres apart
so but we need to be careful about this
social distancing so in that context
where that's why we're saying stay alert
so that we control the virus and we
don't see after all the gains we've made
all the sacrifices people have made to
see the virus level spike up again
that's the number one thing at this
level we've seen in other countries
around the world they've gone into
lockdown they come out they do so
without proper
measures in place and the virus goes
back up above the so called our level
one which risks an exponential growth in
the virus and a second spike so I think
in that case there's this gentleman
could go and seize daughters outside in
the part two meters apart okay can we go
for super quickfire cuz I don't want to
run out of time and I want to get
through as many of these as I can of not
giving clarity so I'll design a clear
message
I appreciate that cuz I don't want to
confuse the issue further okay this is
one from Paul you say you can drive to
other destinations where and how far is
another destination can I Drive from
South Wales to Bristol or London is this
intended to be local so you can drive it
and it's not really so far that the
distance that mass you can drive as far
as you you want to drive to go in for
example go and walk in I don't know
a park or a particular area that you're
fond of as long as you maintain the
social distancing but obviously if
you're going from one part of the UK to
another so if you're going from England
to Wales or from Scotland to Wales and
different rules are in place because the
devolved administrations take a
different approach you need to be very
mindful of the regulations that they've
got in place but certainly within for
example if you live in England or if you
live within Wales and you're moving
around within that nation a subject to
the you just need to comply with the
rules that are in place by the Welsh
executive or here in the UK in England
the rules that we're setting out today
who should be going back to work this
week and how do they get there that's
probably the best way of summarizing the
thousands of questions we've had about
that so if you can work from home stay
at home and because that is the best way
to avoid the interaction that spreads
the virus if you can't work from home
then you should now go back to work
because there's been enough time we've
got the virus down the consultation the
measures have been put in place in the
workplace for example manufacturing or
the construction setting which means it
can be done in a safe way if at all
possible walk or cycle or drive to work
and only if absolutely necessary use
public transport and on public transport
we're going to be setting up more detail
more guidance to make sure that can be
done in a safe way at 2 o'clock and then
in subsequent guidance
tomorrow okay quick one from MS Ron says
what about my job my manufacturing job
they won't believe preventing social
distancing measures I'm pretty sure of
that what do I do
and also my employer's head office says
someone else is in England I live and
work in Wales what do I do when I'm
pressed to go back to work well the full
detail and the guidance is going to come
out and the way I describe the 50 page
document will come out at 2 o'clock and
there'll be more guidance for workplace
settings but if you're in manufacturing
and it's possible to go to work safely
and securely because the hygiene
measures have been put in place because
other precautions have been taken and
we've worked very closely with the
employers in both the manufacturing and
the construction setting and they will
be giving advice to their workers and
obviously that needs to be followed very
carefully then it should be possible I
can't without knowing the details talked
about every single job but what I can
say is it in those sectors like
manufacturing and construction we worked
very carefully to make sure that there
are kovetz secure settings for people to
go back to work but obviously employers
will need to give and we'll give I'm
sure in the next day or so before
Wednesday when these measures kick in
further clear advice for particular
businesses ok probably got time for two
more questions this is from Erin Potter
who's a teacher how am I meant to
socially distance 30 reception kids when
they go back to school potentially on
the 1st of June so we're not taking any
decisions right now on school other than
to say to vulnerable children and the
children of key workers you you can and
you should go back to school but from at
the earliest the 1st of June we're
saying that we would start with
reception year 1 and year 6 in primary
schools different arrangements for
secondary schools and over a phased
conditioned way we were I'm working with
the schools and the primary schools to
begin with we were making sure that we
would have clear guidance about how that
can be done in a with social distancing
with hygiene there's very that the
evidence suggests that there's very
little that there's much lower risk for
young children getting this virus the
risk is that you get transmission
through children to between households
that can put it that way so what we want
to do is make sure and we'll obviously
have more evidence by the
time we get to the first of June which
will be at the earliest subject to
conditions the point at which we start
in a very phased controlled way
proceeding so we'll be providing that
guidance and we'll be able to monitor
very carefully what happens to the virus
between now and then don't rob we're out
of time thank you very much for coming
on this morning and answering loads of
our viewers questions and as the foreign
secretary was telling us that guidance
coming out at two o'clock this afternoon
so if we didn't get through your
question apologies but trying to do as
we can there will be more guidance later
on today there will be and of course
we'll look at that again tomorrow as
well because I'm sure there'll be you
know questions answered perhaps more
questioners as well
[Music]
see the headlines as they happen and
watch BBC News live in the app and get
the full story with BBC decoder UK
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with BBC News